Codebook
========
This project stores tidy data in the file *tidydata.txt* extracted from the raw data that can be found in https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip. This data contain the experiments carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity were captured at a constant rate of 50Hz. The experiments were video-recorded to label the data manually. The original dataset was randomly partitioned into two sets, where 70% of the volunteers was selected for generating the training data and 30% the test data.  

From the original dataset, we obtained the *tidydata* object, which is a matrix with the averaged values of some features from the raw data for each subject and each activity in the original data set. Each row corresponds to a different subject and a different activity following the format ID.activity. Each column refers to a measurement on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement while its description can be found inside the original zip file.

In summary, the matrix has the form:

                | mean(feature) |    ...    | mean(feature) |
----------------|---------------|-----------|---------------| 
  ID.activity   |     value     |    ...    |     value     |   
       ...      |      ...      |    ...    |      ...      |   
  ID.activity   |     value     |    ...    |     value     |   


To load the tidy data, run the code:
```{r}
tidydata<-read.table("tidydata.txt")
```

This *tidydata.txt* file was generated by running the script *run_analysis.R*. Please, refer to *README.md* for further details.